STORY
I graduated with a fairly competitive resume.
I was not getting interviews.
It was a problem with my resume.
I thought about UI/UX.
Changing it created much stronger results.
—
THE INTERFACE
This approach is highly opinionated.
Altering it is not recommended.
Everything is done with intention and purpose.
Some things to consider:
1. Your LinkedIn profile should be optimized for recruiter search. Titles and years of experiences are highly ranked.
2. Your resume should be effective in highlighting your candidacy in 6-10 seconds.
3. Your resume should offer insightful context into your career progress in 1-2 minutes.
4. Resume readers have inherent bias and expectations.
5. Not all good resumes pass and not all bad resumes fail! Don’t take things personal.
—
FORMAT
1. Spacing is strict.
2. Font highlighting is strict.
3. Order of information is strict.
4. Qualifying information serves to empower confidence in interviews.
What does this tell you in 6 seconds?
—
1 PAGE RULE
It signals effective communication. I recommend to avoid using fluff or filler. If you feel a fear of missing out, be more concise. Be honest. Honesty inspires confidence. If you are short a page, work with what you have. Sometimes you may need to work to add more.
—
Education
Add it to the top. Education is more of an expectation setter. It can be overshadowed. There is also advantage to dropping expectations and improving them. For example, a philosophy degree with a strong engineering resume is a good combination.

—
Skills

Honesty inspires confidence. “Proficient” skills are skills you can genuinely geek out about. Explored skills are things you found interesting or productive.
–

Work
Beginners struggle here because it’s hard to create impact. Creating impact takes time. Early career people need to rely more on being business savvy - using relevant tools to get a job done, rather than using tools to improve work that already existed. Competitive advice: Network in person at events & participate in open-source projects. Professors are often have a strong network too! Good projects often have “good first issues” to get people introduced.

—

Projects
1 personal project. 1 business project. Let your personal project be about stuff you enjoy. Express creativity or exploration. Don’t worry about completion. Let your business project have some kind of scope. Deliver a minimum viable product. These days, building things with APIs and SDKs gets the message across. For example: building a Twitter and discord bot for an active social channel. See if you can get paid too! Why not?😊😁

Summary
Remember that a resume is fundamentally a document that communicates something about you. So effective communication is the main goal.




---






